Hello everyone and welcome back to five forms and labels we've already explored the basic input tags
things such as email types of password types and we even saw some more fun ones such as the color type
of inputs.
But now what we want to do is really understand how to connect these various input tags to two features
and one is an action upon clicking that submit button and then the other one is actually labeling that
input.
The use of that label tag will allow you to add labels in front of the input in your aged him form.
And we're going to be learning how to use the label as a as well as the four parameter inside of that
label tag.
And then we're also going to exploring how to activate actions upon clicking the submit button.
We're going to do is walk through a couple of examples that further explain things that we didn't cover
last time but see last time.
So if you remember from the previous lecture when I clicked that submit button it seemed to just refreshed
the page and not really do anything.
And we also saw that when we created a forum tag we had that action and method key parameters that we
didn't really the finer talk about.
Now is the time to revisit those topics and see how they really work which jump to the text editor to
get started.
All right so here I am at the editor and I also have the forms the H to him l file open.
Let's start off by recreating.
Just a very simple form and I'll will use the form tag.
And notice we have that class action and method parameters.
Right now we're just going to ignore those and close them up.
Passen input enter and then we'll say this input is just an email and then we'll also give another input
for submit.
So that's the Submit type of input something I will do however is add a name to this email.
So last time we did this but didn't actually really explore what happens when we add a name.
So let's add a name refresh this page and let's add a couple more things here.
I will say paragraph to enter email and then give a value to this submit button.
So we see something there.
So we'll say submit save that refreshed this and now we see something that says Enter email and submit
Let's see what happens when I actually enter an email click submit.
So I will say something like user at gmail dot com hit submit and notice it seems to essentially just
refresh the page but pay attention to what actually happened here.
In my u r l in Mayerl now I see at the very end user e-mail is equal to user per cent scient 40 gmail
dot com and basically percent sign 40 is a code for the at symbol and we now can see that when I click
Submit I'm basically assigning whatever input I had there to that name.
Let's try this again.
I will call this HVM L and instead of entering email I'm going to try just with a very basic text input.
So I will say type look say enter here.
TEXT I will say type is equal to text and then give this name something like user
will save this refresh.
And now I see enter text let's say enter text and I will type in my stuff here.
Click submit and we see now in the your L we see forms that is HTML with user input is equal to my stuff
so we can begin to get this idea that when I click Submit I'm actually signing whatever is inputted
to the name that the input tag had.
Now what I want to do is explore the idea of an action occurring when I hit the submit button.
So far right now when I hit submit it basically just refreshes the page.
Let's see if we can perform an action to go to another web page or another Web site Aplon clicking that
submit button.
So we come back here to form and put in action in.
And then we can pasan a web page.
Now a lot of times you won't be passing in a nother website passen another web page within your own
web application.
Right now since we don't have a full back in we'll just say the action is equal to HTP and we can say
P.S. WW let's say Facebook that.
And then we need also supply the method and we'll say it's a get value method.
We're going to be talking a lot more about method and get versus post in future lectures right now just
keep it simple by saying Upon clicking the submit button the action I want you to do is go ahead and
go to Facebook dot com and we'll see that we still retain that user input.
So let me call him again.
Are forms that age Tim L..
Here we see entry text.
And let's just make sure that's working by saying enter text and take me to FP for Facebook and will
refresh this.
And now we see Ettrick text and take me to SB So I will enter some text here.
So say hello world.
Hit submit.
Now let's see what happens.
Now it takes me to HTP Facebook dot com with the user input equal to Hello World so we can begin to
get this idea that upon clicking that submit button I can call actions to take me to others web pages
within my entire web application.
Along with the actual input so it might be nice is upon clicking submit it actually takes me to that
user profiles page based off what the input did in these input tax.
All right now we don't know enough about the back end to actually handle a lot of this stuff.
Right now we're basically just working all of this on the front end but hopefully it's pretty impressive
what just pure HVM l can do by itself.
Let's go back here to forms and then finally talk about labels.
Labels going to be just a very quick topic on this so I will delete this and go back to a normal form
click save and then show something very simple something like enter some text and then in this input
I'm going to be having it say text will save this refresh and it says enter some text so I can just
say hello world etc..
Now something I want to notice here is that when I called this paragraph this input type text becomes
a new block so it's not on the same line as this paragraph.
Something I may want to do is actually label all the text inputs on a form.
So a form may have various inputs it may have multiple text inputs.
Maybe you filling out a job application on line and you have various text boxes to fill out something
you may want to do is try to label them and there's two ways of doing it will show you the technically
bad way of doing it which is individual and also the way you should be doing it.
So if I just type in a label or begin to type it in.
I get this label text filled out with this for parameter and we're going to discuss what that parameter
means in just a second.
Right now we'll show you kind of the quote unquote bad way of doing it.
It's basically just the more repeatable way.
But the reason we don't want that is because we want to practice dry coding principles dry standing
for D or y or.
Don't repeat yourself.
So if I call this over here and paste it into that labels Here's my input type and then I say enter
text.
Colon.
Save this an hour refresh that form page.
I can see now that the label is on the same code block as the actual input and that's what I wanted.
But now let's say have multiple inputs.
Something I may have to do now is just keep calling labels I'll say something like.
Again enter text.
Call the input type and text and let's get these values.
Will say this is like one just so it's clear.
We'll call this block to save that.
Refresh the page.
Now we can see here a say entered text block 1 enter text block to something however that I don't want
to do is constantly be repeating myself so I don't want to have to actually call label enter text label
entered Tex etc..
That's where that for parameter comes into play.
So we just showed how to use a label individually.
Banality show how to use a label with that for parameter.
So I will again call label and here you have the four parameter and what I will do is match this up
to a new parameter that we're going to learn about called ID so I'll say this is for user input and
then say something like enter input and notice the inside of these label tags.
It's just a text.
I haven't actually passed than the input tag yet than outside of this.
I'm going to say input will say this is type text and we'll give it a value something like.
Hello and will also give it an ID and ID is something we're going to be exploring a lot more when we
talk about C Ss in the next section.
But for now I just want to make sure that Id links up and matches the four.
And basically what this is saying is it's saying OK this label is for the ID user input and there is
the actual label.
And then we can see that the input has the site the user input which means it's going to link this label
to this input.
So let's refresh this with Will it save it and then refresh this and we can see here enter input has
been linked to this text box and I didn't actually have to now put that input into this label and this
is just a bit of a nicer and more common way to see label being used.
Right now it may not make a whole lot of sense because we haven't really covered ID yet and we haven't
really covered how to connect an ID to another file.
But right now just consider the idea that ID is a possible parameter for uniquely identifying in HVM
Eltang and that whole concept is going to make a lot more sense.
We want to uniquely style HTL tags based off some sort of ID.
And that's how we're going to be finding them based off of the site.
All right.
So so far recovered forms how to perform an action will perform how to label an input and then how to
use label with D for parameter.
The last thing I want to mention are two extra parameters you could put into an input and that is instead
of a value you can use a placeholder.
So I notice when I use value I actually have to manually delete what's already in there.
A lot of times on the internet instead of a value you will see something called a placeholder.
So let's save that and refresh the page and we can see here we have a placeholder and it's a little
more faint in the font color and that's because when I click on this it will basically immediately disappear
as soon as I start typing something.
So that's much more common to see when you're building a web site that has a placeholder instead of
a value.
So you'll often see things such as Enter email or like enter email here.
This was an email input.
So refresh this entry mail here.
And as soon as I click this and start typing stuff that placeholder goes away that's a much better way
of using stuff to actually be a placeholder instead of a value.
And the last thing I want to show you is this required argument.
So basically what happens is when you passen required here it doesn't require anything to say required
equals it's just required.
And basically what that means is when you submit something you need to make sure that it has this.
So let me show an example of that.
We will say enter text here and let's add in some more input.
So let's just make it simple get rid of this label and we will get rid of this ID and we will have this
text input as well as in other text input.
And this will have a placeholder
and this will say not required.
And then finally we will have an input with a submit button.
SUB.
And we will give that the value.
Wups let's expand that again will give that the value.
Just submit.
And then this will have a placeholder saying required as you may have guessed.
Basically when we click submit we are required to have input in this second text box.
I will refresh this.
We see not required and required.
So if I just put stuff in required so I say hello and don't put anything in not required click submit.
I don't have any problems the page just refreshes.
But now let's try it again I'll zoom back in and we will skip to this little pop up.
We'll put something in.
Not required.
So hello.
But not put anything in the required.
Hit submit and notice it says Please fill out this field and all of that is happening with your browser.
This recognizing that hey this e-mail says that this input is required so you must put something in
there before clicking the submit button.
Or I'll give you a warning.
And that's the difference between something being required and not required.
All right.
I know we covered a lot in this lecture.
Let's briefly talk about it one more time.
We talked about forms how we can state an action to link to another web page and then we can say method
equals to get to actually complete that action.
Then we talk about labels how you can use an individual able to actually label one of your inputs.
And then finally we talked about the use of the four parameter with label as well as placeholders and
set of values and the required parameter.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.